Diagnosis is correct and the fix is right. Approving.
On the role + SET LOCAL ROLE approach: green-light. This is the standard pattern when the app connects as superuser. SET LOCAL ROLE inside a transaction is correctly scoped — privileges revert on COMMIT/ROLLBACK, the pool client returns clean to the pool. SET LOCAL app.current_organization_id after the role switch still works because custom GUCs are settable by any role.
One substantive addition before you run it. The role needs SELECT on the parent tables that helpers will join to. Step 6 helpers in v3 join across tables — getEnrolledPayers joins practice_payer_enrollments to payers, getActiveProviders joins to providers, getPatientCoverages joins to patients, getClaimProviderAssignments joins to claims. Without SELECT on those, helpers will throw permission denied for table X the first time a join runs. Add to the grant list:
sqlGRANT SELECT ON organizations, payers, providers, patients, claims TO claimshield_app_role;
SELECT only — not INSERT/UPDATE/DELETE. The new helpers don't write to parent tables, and we don't want to accidentally enable cross-domain mutations through this role.
Note for sprint 1, not sprint 0. The current policies use only USING clauses. USING applies to SELECT, UPDATE row-visibility, and DELETE. INSERT and UPDATE row-validation use WITH CHECK, which is absent. Through claimshield_app_role, an INSERT could write a row with any organization_id, even one that doesn't match the current tenant context. Sprint 0 doesn't INSERT through the helper layer (the seed runs as postgres, bypassing RLS — correct for seeding). But sprint 1 starts wiring helpers into write paths. Before that runs, every policy needs a matching WITH CHECK:
sqlALTER POLICY tenant_isolation ON organization_practice_profiles
  USING (organization_id = current_setting('app.current_organization_id', true))
  WITH CHECK (organization_id = current_setting('app.current_organization_id', true));
-- (Repeat for the five other tables.)
Add this to migration-state.md as a sprint 1 prerequisite. Don't apply now — sprint 0 doesn't write through the helpers.
On the rejected alternative (non-superuser in DATABASE_URL): correct call to reject. That would change the runtime role for every existing query in the codebase — every cron, every existing route, every seeder. Blast radius is exactly what sprint 0 is supposed to avoid. SET LOCAL ROLE is the right scoping.
On your three asks:

Approach approved as described, with the parent-table SELECT grants added.
Permission granted to write the DDL block (CREATE ROLE + GRANTs + GRANT membership to postgres) and edit server/middleware/tenant-context.ts. Keep the change scoped — role creation, grants, the one-line SET LOCAL ROLE in the transaction wrapper. Nothing else.
Continue through Steps 6–9 after verification passes all 12 cases. The existing Step 6 verification (getActiveProfile returns a populated profile object) will catch any grant gaps when helpers run, so I'm not adding another formal pause. If something else genuinely unexpected surfaces — beyond a missing grant that's a one-line fix — pause and surface like you did here. Otherwise carry through to the audit report.

Two items for your final audit report. First, the role + SET LOCAL ROLE design and why it was needed (postgres connection bypassing RLS by default). This is important context for sprint 1+ developers — they need to know that any new tenant-scoped helper must use withTenantTx, not the global db, because the global db connects as postgres and bypasses RLS. Second, the WITH CHECK gap noted as a sprint 1 prerequisite.
Proceed.